David's prayer teaches us an important lesson, especially since we know that David
enjoyed Jehovah's favor.
And the key point is it was his attitude in willingness he sacrificed to God.
His motive was good, it was from the heart.
And when we studied David's life, we realized that it was a constant.
Even when he sinned, it still was a constant that he would approach Jehovah with an open
heart, willingly sacrificing to him.
Let's read Psalm 546, the entire verse, Psalm 546.
It starts out as we have already considered, I will sacrifice to you willingly.
But then it says, I will praise your name, O Jehovah, for it is good.
More directly said, really, it's Jehovah is good.
His name is good, but he is good.
And everything he requires of us is good.
There's no command from God for his servants that is bad.
It's always for our benefit.
Even the elimination of the wicked really is good because it shows love for those who
just want to live in peace and worship their great God, enjoy and happiness.
So that's also something that's very good what he's going to do.
So why wouldn't we want to offer sacrifices to our great God, willingly?
And as we know, Jehovah looks at more than what we offer to him or what we give up for
him.
In each case, it's sacrifice.
He can see why we're making sacrifices to him.
And this is undoubtedly one of the reasons why Jehovah rejected Keynes' sacrifice.
It wasn't just because it was a vegetable.
But the Scripture says he didn't look with approval on Cain and his sacrifice.
But on Cain, because Cain evidently had a bad attitude.
There was something wrong in his motive and why he was offering sacrifices to Jehovah.
And this ties in with what Amos wrote about the Jews in his day.
If you'd like to look up the Scripture, it's Amos chapter 5.
And we're going to read verses 21 through 24.
This chapter 5 verses 21 through 24 to see what Jehovah's feelings were about sacrifices
that the Jews were making during the time of Amos.
Verse 21, I hate, I despise your festivals.
And I take no pleasure in the aroma of your solemn assemblies, perhaps incense, whatever
it may have been.
Then he says in verse 22, even if you offer me whole burnt offerings and gift offerings,
I will find no pleasure in them.
And I will not look with favor on your communion sacrifices of fattened animals.
So what we learn here is that it's not what was offered to God.
The great God of the universe doesn't need some dead animal on an altar.
It has more to do with the attitude of people under worship of Jehovah.
Why they were honoring him or doing these things.
And then what's interesting is the way verse 23 expresses the feelings of Jehovah,
he says, spare me the din of your songs.
And let me not hear the melodies of your stringed instruments.
And then after that he tells us what he wants, let justice flow down like waters.
Well, that has to do with the people and their attitude and their service to God and
righteousness, righteousness, like an ever-flowing stream.
The din of your songs and the music, you know, the word din means loud.
And it was apparently loud.
The music that they played, the din of their songs, their musical instruments.
And the watchtower made an interesting comment on this.
Today, Christendom has a number of celebrations where they use music.
And there's the din of their songs.
They blend pagan customs with the name of Jesus.
Every honor God and what you think of almost immediately is Christmas time.
The din of the music and all the big stores everywhere in the owners of the stores most
likely are either non-believers, atheists or perhaps Jewish or some other background
that they have no concern for the Lord Jesus or honoring the mighty God.
It's all commercial.
And so it makes us think of those things.
An interesting item also about sacrifice in the first century was published in the watchtower
of February the 1st, 2014, and this is the point it made.
God's law stated that all the sacrifices offered at the temple were to be of the best quality
possible.
According to the first century, CE, Jewish writer Philo, he stated that priests at that time
scrutinized animals from head to foot to ensure that they were sound in all respects and
without spot or defect of any kind.
So before they went into the temple or they sold it, the animal had to be sound.
Now this is what scholar EP Sanders has to say about it.
He states that possibly the temple officials authorized reliable sellers of sacrificial
victims to sell only animals and birds that priests had previously inspected.
In this case, the seller would have to give the buyer some kind of chit or token.
A guarantee indicating that the victim, the sacrifice sold, was unblemished.
And then the article goes on to say the following.
In 2011, archaeologists found just such a chit or token in the vicinity of the temple.
A coin-sized clay seal dating from between the first century BCE and 70 CE, so it covered
the period of time when Jesus walked the earth.
It says it's too word-aramaic inscription has been rendered pure for God.
And it's thought that temple officials would have attached such tokens to products for
rich will use or to animals intended for sacrifice.
That's pretty interesting.
Hebrews 1315 says that we make sacrifices, doesn't it?
Praise from the lips, sacrifices to Jehovah God.
So what might be our chit or token that says that our sacrifices are pure for God?
Well I'm not aware that the chit has any anti-type, so I'm not going to go into that.
But we're thankful that we do not have to get a chit or a token every time we put
a few hours in service, work at a construction site, make a return visitor conduct a Bible
study.
And remember, no, your chit is not your field service report at the end of the month.
Not at all.
Isn't it wonderful?
No human has been appointed to scrutinize our sacrifices and determine whether or not
we merit a chit of approval stating that our sacrifice was pure to God.
We just keep doing what David did willingly.
We give of ourselves to honor our great God, Jehovah.
And we acquire a good conscience that if properly trained in harmony with the scriptures,
in a sense, it might be considered the chit in that we feel comfortable because of a
good conscience and knowing that we're giving Jehovah God our best.
Not worried about some quota in itself, feeling that that justifies us or makes us wholly
or honorable, no, just always giving Jehovah God our best.
And the watchtower of December 15, 2013, said the following.
When we live up to Bible standards, our sacrifices bring much joy and satisfaction to us.
And they are especially acceptable to Jehovah.